---
layout: post
title:  "Kavar Log 4: Combat 02"
date:   2020-7-05 16:45:00 +0100
categories: Kavar
---
A new month comes more progress. Although it likes like I haven’t accomplished a lot this week, it definitely feels like I have. Combat has finally been completed. 
The reason why this took longer than expected was because of some issues the code would cause when executed. 
For example, there are two ways to attack enemies in the game: melee and ranged. 
The bow was easy to implement as that only has a ranged attack, but the dagger was a bit more difficult. 
Since daggers can be used as a melee and a ranged weapon, I had to program it in to detect what state it was in and how it would be used. 
To do this, I programmed in a shortcut to change from melee and ranged mode. That was the easy bit. The hard bit was removing the thrown item from the player’s inventory. 
While this sounds easy: get the weapon’s name; make a GameObject; Add a SpriteRenderer and add the weapons image; and add a tag to allow actors to pick it up, for some reason 
Unity (or C#?) doesn’t like it when I drop the item after it has been used.  
This was an easy fix though as all I did was add a coroutine that waited 1 frame so that Unity could update the script. For anyone interested this is the code:

<br /><br />c sharp:
{% highlight c# %}
class PlayerLogic {
    IEnumerator WaitForFrames(int length)
    {
      yield return length;
    }
}
{% endhighlight %}

The code is really simple -simpler than I would off imaged- and can be easily added to any script. The only problem with this though is that after each time a weapon is thrown, the player automatically goes to their hands for weapons.
Like I said at the beginning it doesn’t look like much, but this week was good progress. For next week I will start programming enemy movement and if I get far enough picking up nearby objects. Until then stay safe and happy game making.
